A NETFLIX SERIES
THIS IS A TRUE STORY.
NONE OF THIS REALLY HAPPENED.
["Field, Oh My Field (Song of the Plain)"
by The Red Army Choir playing]
[vehicle approaching]
EAST BERLIN
[car door closing]
Always ready.
[chuckles]
["Field, Oh My Field (Song of the Plain)"
continues]
- [rat squeaking]
- Ah.
Hi there, Comrade Lenin.
Look here.
A little farewell gift.
[blade ringing]
Extraordinary, extraordinary.
["Field, Oh My Field (Song of the Plain)"
crescendos]
- [gun firing]
- [song stops]
["Black on Black" by Dalbello playing]
♪ Black on black ♪
Campari and orange.
♪ A pretty little altar boy ♪
♪ Daddy's little pride and joy ♪
♪ Change the water into wine... ♪
Hey. How you doing?
♪ Touch yourself, and you'll go blind... ♪
Uh, I can buy us both
a schnapps if you like?
My name's Sven. Well, okay.
♪ They say that opposites attract ♪
♪ So very strange ♪
♪ Black on black ♪
♪ Like pleasure and a little pain ♪
♪ The sacred and profane ♪
♪ Like a blasphemous contract ♪
♪ Like black on black ♪
♪ A virginal trembling hand ♪
♪ A frightened sacrificial lamb ♪
♪ From a blinding light a shadow falls ♪
♪ A code of silence quakes the halls ♪
♪ A whisper to a piercing scream ♪
♪ A love they say is frightening ♪
♪ They say that opposites attract ♪
♪ So very strange ♪
[in the background] ♪ Black on black
Like pleasure and a little pain ♪
♪ The sacred and profane... ♪
[inhaling]
♪ Like black on black ♪
♪ Change the water into wine ♪
♪ Touch yourself, and you'll go blind ♪
- [suspenseful music fading in]
- ♪ They say that opposites attract... ♪
[suspenseful music playing]
[woman] One little piggy,
two little piggies.
All the little piggies went home.
- ["Black on Black" continues]
- ♪ Like the kindness of a stranger ♪
♪ Like a Judas kiss... ♪
[dramatic music playing]
["Heisse Würstchen" by Silly playing]
[knocking]
Fuck.
Oh fuck!
["Heisse Würstchen" continues]
[scanner beeps]
[soldier speaking German]
[song continues over radio]
[trilling lips]
[sighs]
[man turns off radio]
Yeah, right.
What's that then?
Oh, nothing.
- [sniffs] It's cough medicine.
- [man 2] Mmm.
For a cough.
What cough's that?
[coughing]
You're so disgusting, you know that?
Why you getting so worked up about it
if I don't have a cough?
- You can have other illnesses.
- [scoffs] Illnesses? Like what?
No idea. Tuberculosis?
- Tuberculosis is a cough.
- You don't have a cough.
Why else would
I take cough medicine, Andi?
- Well, because of your jitters.
- Stop going on at me please, all right?
[sighs] Where is she then?
She'd better not have fucked up.
The Wall will come down
before she screws up.
[sighs]
- [knocking on window]
- Roll the window down, please.
So, parking is absolutely forbidden here,
my friends...
- You haven't got a clue, idiot!
- [officer] Excuse me?
This is
a State Security operation, officer.
So get lost now, or I'll rip your head off
and shit in your eyes!
Uwe, that's enough! Excuse me, officer.
- Have a nice evening, comrades.
- Fucking cunting asshole.
What? What is it?
Uwe, that's enough, that's enough.
Leave it, leave it.
- Shut the door!
- Okay, there you go.
[sighs] I'm so fed up, Uwe.
[optimistic music playing]
There she is.
Comrade Wolf,
the person has been eliminated.
- [speaks gibberish]
- The Firm is much obliged.
Fresh from the West.
Wow. Wow, that's so cool.
[chuckling]
[siren wailing]
Hi.
- My colleagues from Homicide. Yeah.
- Colleagues?
Yeah, yeah, we're... we're colleagues.
I'm, er... Sven from Fraud.
- You called in the murder?
- Yeah, you know, I was...
I was just, um... happened to be there.
I saw the suspect. She sat next to me.
So, erm, female,
about five foot, five inches,
mid-to-late-20s, very attractive,
seemingly good-trained figure,
um, with a knife here on her leg.
Erm, with a determined walk and look.
Like a tiger.
[detective] Mmm.
And now... Yeah... and yeah.
I sort of drew a kind of composite sketch
of what she looked like, more or less.
- This is her?
- Yeah.
Okay, um...
I don't want to insult
your artistic talent,
Petzold, but this is awful.
Oh, rubbish.
Fax it to all precincts right away.
- [detectives laughing]
- I'll call Ms. Stäblein at the precinct.
She'll give it a makeover.
Thanks for the effort.
Wow, Petzold,
you're higher than a giraffe's pussy.
[laughing]
- Wait.
- Stop.
Wait there.
But... [groans]
[suspenseful music playing]
MINISTRY FOR STATE SECURITY
EAST BERLIN
[woman] Bye.
[suspenseful music continues]
[music fades out]
[man] Come in.
Colonel?
Informant "Granddaughter"
has returned from a successful operation.
[colonel] Well, I'm very happy
to hear that.
[glasses clink]
The girl is a good agent, yeah?
- One of the best.
- That good, is she?
Yeah. That she is.
And very attractive, right?
Nothing to worry about, colonel.
My private relationship with Kleo Straub
is only for the effective management
of the agent.
If there's anything amorous in it, Wolf,
I'll cut your balls off and fire you both.
- It's clear?
- Absolutely, sir.
Good, you can go home now.
- [footsteps receding]
- [door opening]
[waltz music playing]
[pouring liquor]
NO DUMPING!
[grunting lightly]
Hmm.
[waltz music continues]
Pitti's looking
for a tie, oh boy. [laughs]
You want to look
really smart tomorrow too...
- [doorbell ringing]
- Na, na, na, na, na, na.
[Pitti] Hey, I'm telling you,
don't make fun of me.
[waltz music continues]
- [clears throat]
- [music stops]
Ah, good evening.
Good evening.
- [romantic music playing]
- [Kleo] Wash your hands.
- Wash my hands?
- [Kleo] Mm-hmm.
Have you washed your hands?
- [Kleo] Mmm.
- Come on then. Show me.
[Kleo chuckles lightly]
[Kleo giggling]
[romantic music continues]
[Kleo laughing lightly]
[Kleo continues laughing]
- Take it away.
- [Andi grunts]
[sighs] What, are you pregnant?
Yeah.
You're joking, right?
- What do you think?
- [Andi snorts]
If you're not, then...
No idea, then... [sharply inhales]
I'd be a father, I imagine.
[exhaling]
Kleo, no messing about. Are you serious?
- Hmm?
- [Kleo] Mmm.
Are you not happy?
- Well, of course I'm happy! [chuckling]
- [Kleo giggling]
[Andi kissing Kleo]
- [Kleo continues giggling]
- How long have you known?
For 56 days, eight hours, and 52 seconds.
- So long? And you didn't tell me?
- [Kleo chuckles]
Girl or boy?
She's a first-class agent, hopefully.
[Andi] Well, these are...
[kisses]...enormous...
[kisses]...footsteps... [kissing]
...with you as mama. [kisses]
[Kleo chuckles]
What will we do about the Firm?
Somebody else will have to eliminate
the enemies of the state.
Today was my very last mission.
I'll go to the elite training centre,
figure skating.
- That sounds good.
- My breasts will get really big.
[Andi] Hmm!
Show me.
[Kleo laughing]
[Andi sighs]
[door closing]
[clattering]
[muttering softly]
[gasping and groaning]
Am I seriously supposed to think
you've had a stroke or just dropped dead?
Nah, a stroke.
I pretended to have a stroke...
- God, Sven. What goes on in your head?
- [Sven groans]
You tell me two days ago
you're going out for a beer,
you only come home now, without calling,
without letting me know in any way.
- Hey, I've been worried.
- [Sven] Yeah.
Well, in my version,
I'd have made you breakfast
with coffee and rolls
and eggs and all that shit.
Hadn't we agreed to call?
We had.
I'm really sorry.
Really.
But something completely crazy happened.
You won't believe it.
A murder in the Big Eden.
And who witnessed it? I did.
[paper rustling]
It's a chance.
[zip closing]
This is my chance.
[footsteps approaching]
[woman] Hmm.
[son] Hi, Dad.
[Sven moans affectionately]
[son] Oh God.
[Sven] What? What is it?
- [son] Dad, you stink.
- [Sven] You stink.
[son groans]
This is great.
- [calm, curious music playing]
- [Sven chuckles]
[woman] Do you know what's great?
Sleep is great.
Sven, come to bed now.
[music intensifies]
[action music playing]
POLICE
- [Sven] Morning.
- [officer] Morning, Petzold.
Got to be time for that.
[indistinct chattering]
[action music continues]
[music stops]
Svenny,
all day yesterday, I didn't call her once,
just like you said.
- Yeah?
- Yeah.
Super, Freddy.
Yeah, but I called five times
in the night.
We got totally wasted at Diener's.
I went off on one into the machine.
"Oh, you're so cool, you're so cool."
The sixth time, she answered.
She didn't think it was cool.
Thanks. [sniffs]
Hey, seriously, I don't think
she's such a bombshell, your Natalie.
She's a bit trendy-schmendy, right?
Easy for you, mate.
You've got Jenny. Not everyone's so lucky.
What's this, "lucky"?
I'm the extremely horny type.
[chuckles] The extremely horny type?
- What am I then, a bum?
- [chuckling] Come on, let's go shopping.
We'll sort out your hairstyle,
get you a great car.
- Are you just taking the piss, or what?
- [Sven chuckling]
Hey.
Soon you can tell
your girly stories to someone else.
- How's that, then?
- Last night I went to Eden.
Eden? Where the murder happened?
Exactly. And I got to see the suspect.
Here. This sketch was drawn
from my description.
What the hell's that?
She looks like a ten-year-old kid.
You're talking a load of shite.
Do you know what this all means?
What's that?
- I am gonna solve this case.
- [intriguing music playing]
[Freddy] You're gonna solve this case?
What's wrong with you?
- I'm telling you...
- Wait a sec.
Sven. Svenny?
[intriguing music continues]
Hello, Mr. Böttger.
Any news in the Eden case? The girl?
- Just to hear what the status is.
- [Böttger laughs]
Oh yeah, right, your work of art.
Michalzik told me about it.
I'm afraid not,
despite a major search for them.
She must have vanished into thin air.
Well, when your colleagues
need any assistance,
any time, I'm here.
Huh?
Before you go offering assistance,
first you ought
to do your own job properly, Petzold!
[music stops]
[colonel] Come in.
[officer] This was intercepted
by our resident
with the West Berlin
law enforcement authorities.
- I thought that...
- Thank you, Heinrich.
[footsteps receding]
[door opening]
[door closing]
[colonel] Oh damn it.
[exhales]
[grunts lightly]
Comrade? Yes, it's... it's me here, Ludger.
[inhales sharply] We have a problem.
The suitcase is safe, right?
[hunters] ♪ For he's a jolly good fellow ♪
♪ For he's a jolly good fellow ♪
- ♪ Which nobody can deny ♪
- [whipped cream hissing]
[hunter] To Comrade Straub,
the best agent commander in our ranks.
To our comrade colonel-general,
three cheers, hip-hip...
[crowd] Hooray! Hooray! Hooray!
Kleo, my child.
- [Kleo chuckles]
- [Straub sighs]
Comrade Mielke.
- Yes. A very great honour.
- [Kleo] Hmm.
- [Kleo chuckles lightly]
- He came specially to congratulate me.
[both chuckle and breathe deeply]
[man] Ah. Look at all this!
[indistinct chatter]
A portable radio. Thank you very much.
Grandpa, I know you already have one,
but this one is stereo, and it's got bass.
And you enjoy listening to music so much,
so I thought you'd like it.
Turn the thing on then.
I've no idea how it works.
- Watch.
- [chatter continues in background]
Whack.
Zzzzt. [exhales]
Ooh.
["Sputnik (Thema)"
by Die Sputniks playing]
- [Kleo clicking fingers]
- [Straub chuckles]
Ah. Oh.
["Sputnik (Thema)" continues]
[both laughing]
[Straub laughs and breathes heavily]
- [Straub turns off radio]
- [Kleo chuckles]
- It is absolutely perfect.
- Good.
- Thank you. [chuckles]
- I'm glad.
Otto? The minister is leaving now.
Thanks, Klaus. I'm coming.
[sighs]
Good, Grandpa. I'll go. See you soon.
- [Straub] Ah.
- [Kleo] Off to the night shift!
See you next week then.
- [Straub] Uh-huh.
- Have fun on your birthday.
- [Straub sighs]
- Bye.
[ominous music playing]
[birds chirping outside]
[dog barking outside]
BERLIN-MARZAHN
FOOTBRIDGE TO MÄRKISCHE - ALLEE
[Kleo grunting]
- Watch where you're going there, miss.
- Yeah. I'm sorry.
[man sneers]
[engine revving]
Yes, and then I went
to the disco by myself, you know?
[Kleo] Yeah.
I thought I'd just take a look,
and then, uh, I... Marco came up to me.
- [Kleo] Marco? [chuckles]
- Yeah, Marco from Fangschleuse.
And then we danced for a bit,
we had another drink,
and it was really cool.
And then he said he works at the WBD,
the Wilthen brandy distillery.
[Kleo] Mm-hmm.
So I said, "Hey, watch out
that you don't become an alcoholic
if you've got the stuff
on tap all day long." You see?
And then he says quite seriously...
[mocking]..."I've drunk this for years.
If I was an alcoholic, I'd know it."
Oh wonderful! I mean, can you believe it?
- [woman] Ms. Straub?
- Yeah?
We have to ask you to come along with us.
And you are?
What's all this?
You've been reported.
It must be a misunderstanding.
My name is Kleo Straub.
- [woman] Come with us, please.
- [ominous music playing]
- Come on.
- [Kleo sighs]
Kleo, what should I tell them?
Should I say you've been arrested?
- It'll be cleared up soon.
- [woman] Come on.
[ominous music continues]
[handcuffs clinking]
[typewriter clacking]
[investigator] Ms. Straub,
you're accused of betraying state secrets.
You handed over the blueprints
of the Sternradio cassette recorder
SKR 800 Mir
to a representative of the class enemy.
That's... that's ridiculous.
You currently work
for Sternradio Entertainment Electronics.
That's right. In production.
Will you explain this then?
- [ominous music playing]
- [typewriter clacking in the background]
I just bumped accidentally into this man.
This man is an enemy agent
from West Germany.
He was detained at the border
shortly after this.
Why don't you call Reconnaissance,
Division 18. They'll clear this all up.
It was your grandfather
who looked after you?
[Kleo] That's right.
And my grandfather works
for Reconnaissance, Division One. Ask him.
Well, there is no mention of anyone in
the Ministry of State Security's records
with the name Kleo Straub.
Are you lying for your own personal gain?
- [angrily] No!
- Hmm.
I'm an unofficial agent of the state!
Reconnaissance, Division 18.
I took part in 12 successful operations.
There are records of all of them.
Call my commanding officer.
Don't worry, we will do that.
- [footsteps receding]
- [typewriter ringing]
[ominous music continues]
[ominous music intensifies]
[judge] The verdict is as follows.
In accordance with paragraphs 96 and 97
of the Penal Code
of the German Democratic Republic...
[typewriter clacking]
...the accused, Kleo Jennifer Straub,
born on September the 2nd, 1964,
is sentenced to life imprisonment
for high treason and espionage
due to the particular severity
of this case.
[typewriter continues clacking]
I demand that my witnesses be heard here.
[judge] They've all
been questioned already, Ms. Straub.
And they told you exactly who I work for.
All the witnesses testified against you.
Your colleagues at Sternradio,
Comrade Uwe Mittig,
Colonel Wieczorek, even your grandfather.
[shouting] That cannot have happened!
I want to see the records.
I demand access to the files!
[ominous music playing]
I... I... I...
I'm having a child.
Well, you really should have thought
about that before, Ms. Straub.
- [laughing desperately]
- Take the prisoner away, please.
This is a joke.
This... [exhales sharply] This is a joke.
[laughs desperately]
[ominous music continues]
[typewriter continues clacking]
[bird squawking]
[gloomy music playing]
[typewriter clacking]
[Straub] My dear Kleo,
I've had many decisions
to make in my life.
Letting you go to prison was the hardest.
You did nothing wrong.
Should you ever read these words...
[crying]...let it lie.
Otherwise, you'll never
find any peace for yourself.
Your loving grandpa.
[ominous music continues]
[clock ticking]
[Ludger over phone] Comrade,
Agent "Granddaughter"
has been deactivated.
[clock continues ticking]
- [Andi exhales]
- Do you understand?
[Andi softly] Yes, sir.
[breathing deeply]
- [pulsing suspenseful music playing]
- [Kleo groaning]
[door locking]
[breathing heavily]
[Kleo groans]
[pulsing suspenseful music intensifies]
[groaning]
[screaming and grunting]
- [screaming frantically]
- [music crescendos and stops]
[Freddy imitating Scarface] "Her womb..."
[both] "...is so, so polluted."
"I can't even have
a fucking baby with her."
My God, what a cool movie.
- It's real, the way he...
- Hi.
- Oh shit, what shall we have?
- Um, yeah, curry and rice.
- Yeah.
- [indistinct chatter]
Over here, mmm, Petzold. Mmm.
Yeah?
Um... [clears throat]
- The, um, Eden file.
- Yeah?
- You remember?
- Of course. [chuckles]
The, erm... The case has been dropped.
[indistinct chatter]
What? How so?
Well, the guy died of an overdose,
so, not murder.
Ah, but the woman had a knife,
here on her leg.
Who takes a knife
with them to a fucking disco, huh?
That would be a clue
if the guy'd been stabbed.
But was he stabbed? I don't think so.
Right, right, but there is a victim.
Who... Who's the victim?
Hasn't been identified.
- [clears throat]
- And the woman?
Have they questioned the woman?
Yeah, yeah, um... um...
[clears throat] No, um...
Homicide says she doesn't exist. Hmm.
And, um... [clears throat]...try the curry.
She doesn't exist?
Are they taking the piss?
Of course this woman exists!
Are you listening?
I witnessed it. I was right there.
But you were also wasted.
You said so yourself, hmm?
What's that got to do with anything?
The woman was still there.
Hmm, Petzold... [clears throat]
...listen, you're Fraud, not Homicide.
- But Mr. Böttger, this is a...
- Uh, uh, uh, one moment. Okay?
What are the con artists thinking?
Hmm?
[indistinct chatter]
- [Sven exhales heavily]
- What was that about?
[breathing heavily] The Eden case. Er...
He's saying he died of an overdose.
Case closed.
I'm telling you this guy didn't die
of a fucking overdose, seriously.
The woman killed him.
A hundred percent, a thousand percent.
Yeah, okay, okay. Erm...
Do you want some fries with this, or erm...
[prisoners groaning]
- [prisoner 1] Get off me!
- [prisoner 2 groaning]
[prisoner 1] No!
- [screaming]
- [prisoner 2 groaning]
[pulsing suspenseful music playing]
[prisoner 2 groaning]
We don't do that. [vocalizing playfully]
[pulsing suspenseful music intensifies]
Everything's in order.
I just wanted to help.
- [prisoners yelling]
- [Kleo grunts]
[prisoner 3 groaning]
[grunting]
[Kleo groans and chuckles]
- [Kleo spitting]
- [prisoner 2 groans]
[prisons 2 grunts]
[laboured breathing]
Is that enough,
or do you want more, sweetie?
- [Kleo grunts]
- [prisons 2 groaning]
- [Kleo screaming]
- [music quietens]
[Kleo groaning]
[prisoners chuckling]
[Kleo continues groaning]
[Kleo screaming]
[music fades]
[inhales sharply]
[eerie music playing softly]
[bed clattering]
[breathing heavily]
[sobbing softly]
["Der Kleine Trompeter"
by Jungpionier Und Trompeter playing]
[continues sobbing softly]
[groaning]
[eerie music intensifies]
[sobbing]
- [thunder cracking]
- [rain falling]
[door unlocking]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Kleo striking wall]
[suspenseful synth playing]
[yelling over the television]
[man 1 on television]
We have come here to tell you
- ...that today...
- [guard 1] That's impossible.
- ...your departure...
- [guard 1] I don't believe it. Turn it up.
[guard 2] Yes, turn it up.
[reporter 1]
The GDR's new travel regulations
with the opening of the border
led to crowds of East Berliners
flooding into the western part
of the city yesterday evening
and throughout the night.
[man 2] The winds of change,
which have been
sweeping across Europe for some time,
could not pass Germany by.
Berlin will live, and the Wall will fall.
[reporter 2] In order to alleviate
the situation in the GDR's prisons,
today the Communist Party leadership
announced a complete amnesty
and decided
to release all political prisoners.
GATE 2
[birds chirping]
MAY 1990
[vehicles passing nearby]
[calm music playing]
[officer] Thank you.
Well, you afraid of going to the West?
- Can I go there?
- Yes.
- [car departing]
- And come back again?
[chuckles] That depends.
The border will close?
As they say, anything is possible.
["Lfo Mulch" by Alessandro Rizzo
and Elliot Greenway Ireland playing]
[car approaching]
[song continues in the background]
♪ You make me feel so good... ♪
- Hello.
- Who are you?
I'm Thilo. You?
This is my apartment.
- ♪ You make me feel so good... ♪
- I want something.
Oh. Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Is anyone here?
♪ Say oh yeah, oh yeah... ♪
No, no.
♪ Oh yeah... ♪
Hey, is this music cool,
or is this music cool?
♪ You make me feel so good... ♪
CORN FLAKES
You're a Westerner.
[Thilo] Yeah, but it's all by the book.
There's this law.
["Lfo Mulch" continues]
[Kleo] What law?
[Thilo] Well, if you move into
an empty apartment
and pay rent for three months,
then you're the new tenant.
Here, look, I've paid.
It's all mine.
Hey, you can crash here too if you want.
I don't want to be one of those Westerners
who march into the East
and take over Easterners' apartments.
Okay?
Cool outfit, by the way.
Do you know the Eimer?
It's sort of a disco.
You know the Ufo?
You know the Fischlabor?
The Tacheles neither?
- You're really living on another planet.
- What do you want from me?
[chuckles] You've got quite a bit
of catching up to do. Quite a bit.
- [song ends]
- But come tonight to the Tacheles.
They're reopening.
[gun cocking]
I was never here. Understood?
[Thilo grunting]
- Huh?
- [gun rattling]
[Kleo] Do you understand?
A friend of mine, Klaus, he drilled a hole
in his forehead at exactly this spot
with a foot pedal drill,
like a third eye.
For enlightenment, you see?
And you're all coming over here now, yeah?
[sighs] Fucking hell.
["The Red Army Is the Strongest"
by The Red Army Choir]
continues]
What do you want here?
My archives.
I want to know what really happened then
and who was behind it.
[judge] Mmm...
- [blade slices]
- [judge screams]
["The Red Army Is the Strongest"
continues]
[Böttger] Quite a lot is happening
in this country, hmm?
And not only for the better.
It's the Wild West here now,
or rather, the Wild East.
We've got a thriving black market here.
Consumer electronics,
car parts, carpets, jeans.
[chuckling] Jeans. Just imagine it, huh?
[all chuckling]
[sighs] Our colleagues
in the East German Police
are not taken seriously anymore.
Not even by themselves.
For us, that means tackling it.
A new special task force.
[Sven] And cigarettes.
The Vietnamese...
[clears throat]
The Vietnamese are coming, erm,
en masse from the East
and selling cigarettes
on the streets... [inhales sharply]
...illegally in a really big way.
It's gonna be a massive market.
[clears throat]
The Vietnamese, huh?
Yeah.
Once again, you're on to something
really big there, Petzold, huh?
- [police officers laughing]
- [unsettling music playing]
[laughing continues loudly]
That's good for today.
Thanks. Get back to work.
[indistinct chatter]
- [Sven] But the Vietnamese.
- [Freddy] I know, Svenny.
- [trolley rattling]
- [unsettling music continues]
Right, Petzold, please take these files
to the archives, yeah?
What files are they?
Political prisoners
they've released from prison over there.
Well, what do we do with them?
Petzold, man, we'll wallpaper
our summer huts with them.
Funny.
Okay, archives.
Yeah...
REG. NO. XVIII INFORMANT "GRANDDAUGHTER"
2477/82- MINISTRY FOR STATE SECURITY
[intriguing music playing]
[Sven breathing heavily]
Where did I put it? Where did I put it?
I knew it. I knew all along.
BERLIN DAILY
CHARLOTTENBURG NEWS
- Kleo Straub, agent, Sternradio, Pralina.
- [intriguing music continues]
VERDICT
[music fades]
[birds chirping]
[inhales softly]
[mysterious music playing]
AN AGENT MUST BE CLEANER
AND MORE HONEST THAN ANYONE.
[sighs]
ARREST WARRANT
[birds continue chirping]
VERDICT
[music fades]
[sighs]
TESTIMONY - OTTO STRAUB
[female officer]
Comrade Colonel-General Straub,
Reconnaissance, Division One,
has come forward to give testimony.
[ominous music playing]
Comrade, you have
your granddaughter Kleo's statement
in front of you?
[Straub] Yes, I do. It's a total mystery
to me what Kleo is saying here.
At no point was my granddaughter working
for the Ministry of State Security.
No, neither officially nor unofficially.
I was unaware
of any contacts in West Germany.
But I can't rule it out either.
It was quite possible, yes,
but I didn't know anything about that.
[female officer] Is she capable
of collaborating with the West?
[Straub] I'm not aware of
any spying activities for the West, but...
Yes, within the realms of possibility,
yes, absolutely.
- You know...
- [female officer] Yes?
[Straub] Kleo, she is, er...
- She has mental health problems.
- [sad music playing]
In that respect,
she's like her mother, Brigitte.
She was also mentally, er... Well, yes.
She hung around
with negative enemy elements.
It wasn't a good influence on the girl.
- Kleo.
- [Kleo gasps]
[female officer] Was your granddaughter
getting treatment for this?
[tape player clicks off]
[Straub sighs]
I'm so happy to see you here again.
[exhales deeply]
What are you doing here?
Yeah, what am I doing here?
[birds chirping outside]
[sighs] Ah...
I have moss cake.
You like it so much.
- [Kleo sighs]
- [Straub] Or a schnapps first?
I'll get us a schnapps.
- [Kleo sighs]
- [sad music playing]
[pouring schnapps]
[Straub exhales sharply] Want one?
Why, Grandpa?
What for?
[Straub sighs]
Kleo.
There wasn't any other option available.
You must understand that.
[sad music continues]
I was following orders.
You know how it worked.
You were unofficial,
and you knew what that meant.
I couldn't admit that you were working
for the Firm all along.
- [Kleo] Hmm.
- [Straub] That would have been treason.
[chuckles] There was no other way.
No other way?
[Straub breathes deeply]
Do you know what they did to me?
Do you know?
[Straub] Hmm.
I lost my baby.
[pulsing synth playing softly]
I can't ever have children.
I'm the one with no option.
[Straub exhaling through nose]
[Straub clears throat] Yeah.
Yeah.
[Straub exhaling heavily]
I would like you to read this.
[Kleo laughing]
What?
Lenin?
- Yes.
- Are you being serious?
[Straub breathing heavily] Good.
[emotional music playing]
You think I'm guilty...
and if the man who betrayed you
wasn't your beloved grandpa,
then you would now kill him.
- [Kleo breathing heavily]
- [Straub] Yes. Good. Do it.
[Kleo] Grandpa?
Go on, do it!
[Kleo breathing heavily]
Yes, but that requires courage.
Do you think I'll let you go now?
No.
[dramatic synth playing]
I'm not doing you this favour.
[Straub sighs]
I only wanted to be good enough for you,
Grandpa.
- You were everything to me.
- [exhales] That's enough.
[suspenseful music playing]
[gun fires]
[gun drops to the floor]
[Straub grunts]
[music fades]
[emotional vocalisation playing]
[crickets chirping]
[Kleo breathes heavily]
[crying]
[waltz music playing]
[sobbing]
[breathes heavily]
[grunting]
[breathing heavily]
[waltz music continues]
[cement mixer whirring]
[waltz music fades]
["Nine O Fine"
by Mark Nolan and David Redwitz playing]
[Thilo] Kleo!
So glad you came here.
[song ends suddenly]
[birds chirping]
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
[intriguing music playing]
- [man in Spanish] Hi.
- How's it going?
[in English] This suitcase belongs
to the comrades from Berlin.
- Kleo's out causing trouble.
- Mmm.
Make sure she doesn't get her hands on it.
Mmm.
["Rin Del Angelito"
by Inti-Illimani playing]
["Rin Del Angelito" continues]
[song ends]